#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
What is genetic local search?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this section we will mainly discuss memetic algorithms, which are mostly
 the same as genetic algortihms.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Memetic algorithms were introduced in the late 80s to form a family of metaheuri
stics that combine algorithmic approaches.
 Memetic comes from the word 'meme', introduced by R.
 Dawkins in 1976.
 Memes are elements of a culture or behaviour that are passed by nongenetic
 means, also knows as imitation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Initially, Evolutionary Algorithms, Simulated Annealing (+ variants) and
 Tabu Search were combined.
 Nowadays, more and/or other metaheuristics are applied in memetic algorithms.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Algorithms used for memetic algorithms
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since memetic algorithms are based on the combination of other algorithms,
 there is no concluding algorithm.
 We will explain some of the algorithms that are combined to obtain a memetic
 algorithm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Evolutionary algorithms 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
