#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Genetic Local search/Hybrid Genetic Algorithms
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this section we will focus on genetic algorithms that rely heavily on
 local search, which is a common form of hybrid genetic algorithms.
 Genetic algorithms are good at global search, but converge slowly.
 Local search on the other hand is good at fine-tuning but often fails to
 find local optima.
 The hybrid approach combines the best of two worlds: Genetic algorithms
 perform global search to avoid falling into local optima, while local search
 handles the fine-tuning <insert quote cheng1999>.
 Some state-of-the-art hybrid genetic algorithms to the job shop problem
 are presented in this section.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Shifting Bottleneck Procedure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first example is a combination of genetic algorithms with bottleneck
 shiting procedure.
 To get a good understanding of this hybrid genetic algorithms, let's first
 explore the definition of the shifting bottleneck procedure.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Shifting Bottleneck Procedure (SBP) is an extensively used heuristic
 to approach optimal solutions for the job shop problem.
 Given a JSP-instance, which consists of a multi-machine schedule and a
 certain number of jobs.
 The SBP starts by creating a partial schedule of just the first machine.
 As many jobs as possible get assigned to this machine.
 The SBP then continues by iteratively bringing another machine (named the
 bottleneck) into the schedule.
 Every iteration, SPB locally optimizes the current partial scedule by solving
 the minimum makespan for each individual machine, one by one.
 In essence, this reduces the JSP from solving a multi-machine scheduling
 problem to repeatedly solving single-machine scheduling problems 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Adams-and-Joseph-1988"

\end_inset

.
 Because the partial schedules constructed in previous iterations may be
 adjusted for improvement before starting the next iteration, the SBP may
 be considered an adaptive constructive method, which in essence combines
 construction with local search 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Cesar-Rego-and-Renato-Duarte-2009"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now, consider the hybrid genetic approach for the SBP.
 In this approach, we denote a chromosome as a list of ordered machines.
 Genetic algorithms here evolve those chromosomes in order to retrieve better
 sequences of machines, for SPB.
 A genetic algorithm is used to evolve a sequence of machines and the bottleneck
 shifting procedure is used to deduce a schedule from the encoding of machine
 sequence.
 Resulting schedules differ greatly in quality, depening on the sequence
 of bottleneck machines.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
