#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Heuristics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are several ways to solve a job-shop scheduling problem using different
 types of heuristic algorithms.
 A few examples are given here:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Examples
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph

\series bold
Filter-and-Fan approach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
NOTE: DIT IS DE ABSTRACT VAN NUTTIGE PDF.
 GEEN FINAL TEXT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The job shop scheduling problem (JSSP) is a notoriously difficult problem
 in combinatorial optimization.
 Extensive investigation has been devoted to developing efficient algorithms
 to find optimal or near-optimal solutions.
 This paper proposes a new heuristic algorithm for the JSSP that effectively
 combines the classical shifting bottleneck procedure (SBP) with a dynamic
 and adaptive neighborhood search procedure.
 Our new search method, based on a filter-and-fan (F&F) procedure, uses
 the SBP as a subroutine to generate a starting solution and to enhance
 the best schedules produced.
 The F&F approach is a local search procedure that generates compound moves
 by a strategically abbreviated form of tree search.
 Computational results carried out on a standard set of 43 benchmark problems
 show that our F&F algorithm performs more robustly and effectively than
 a number of leading metaheuristic algorithms and rivals the best of these
 algorithms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph

\series bold
parallel variable neighborhood search algorithm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
blablablabnalwenfblawnefawef
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph

\series bold
Ant colony optimization combined with taboo search
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
blablablabnalwenfblawnefawef blablablabnalwenfblawnefawef lablablabnalwenfblawne
fawef
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph
particle swarm optimization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
blablablabnalwenfblawnefawefblablablabnalwenfblawnefawefblablablabnalwenfblawnef
awef
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
blabla
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
