#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The job shop scheduling problem (JSSP) is a notoriously difficult problem
 in combinatorial optimization that has garnered considerable attention
 due to both its practical importance and its solution complexity.
 The problem finds numerous applications in manufacturing and is central
 to many supply chain problems that integrate production planning and scheduling.
 For an extensive treatment of planning and scheduling models and applications
 in various supply chain settings, see Pinedo [24].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The JSSP can be defined by a set of machines specialized to perform ordered
 operations unique for every job.
 No machine can perform more than one operation at a time, each operation
 has a fixed duration (or processing time) and preemption is not allowed.
 Although several performance measures may be used, we consider the classical
 goal of minimizing the duration of the longest job in the schedule, called
 the makespan.
 We use the following notation.
 V = {0, 1, … , n} denotes the set of operations (with 0 and n the dummy
 start and finish operations); M and J denote the sets of machines and jobs,
 respectively; A denotes the set of pairs of operations constrained by precedenc
e relations (established by the specified sequence of machines for each
 job); and Ek denotes the set of pairs of operations to be performed on
 machine k.
 Finally, we let pv > 0 and tv represent the (fixed) processing time and
 the (variable) start time of operation v, respectively.
 The problem can then be stated as [2]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The literature on job shop scheduling is immense and contains an abundant
 variety of algorithms.
 Exact solution methods chiefly are represented by branch-and-bound algorithms
 [28], [29] and [3].
 Due to the complexity of the JSSP within the class of NP-complete problems
 [30] these approaches can only solve problems of relatively modest size
 and therefore approximation (or heuristic) methods are required to provide
 solutions for larger instances.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
NOTE: DEZE INLEIDING KOMT UIT http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S03
77221708000027, HIER KUNNEN WE VAST IETS ZINNIGS UITHALEN! zie dropbox.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
